# Resuminator Logging Service

# README

Welcome to your new backend server generated by [frever.me](frever.me) !

Frever generates a full ruby on rails application with a postgresql database that can be deployed, as is, to Heroku or Digital Ocean. You do not need to install anything locally, you can deploy this folder to github directly and follow the How to Deploy steps. The server is built with Rails 6 and if you want to understand the code and folder structure better use the [Getting Started with Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html).

## How to Deploy

1. First add the folder to git and create a Github repository. Note: the folder must be the root of the repository

### [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/)

2. Create a Heroku account and click **New -> Create new app**
3. Name your app and select region and click **create app**
4. Under "Deployment method" select **Github**
5. Connect your repository
6. Under "Manual deploy" click **deploy now**
7. Once deploy is done, you can find your `app_location` under **Settings -> Domains**
8. Tip: enable auto deploys so every push to the main branch will deploy the new version: **Deploy -> Enable Automatic Deploys**
9. Tip: After trying out your solution upgrade to **hobby** to avoid database sleep and long response times when servicing customers

### [Digital Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/)

2. Create a Digital Ocean account and click **Create -> Apps**
3. Choose your github repository (you will need to give permissions)
4. Verify branch and click **Next**
5. Click **add Database** and select a **PostgresSql db**
6. Name your app and select region and click **Next**
7. Select plan and container and click **Launch Basic App**
8. Wait for deploy to finish...
9. Go to **Components -> db -> Connection Details** and select **Connection String**
10. Copy the connection string
11. Go to **Settings -> App-Level Environment Variables** and click **Edit**
12. Set key to **DATABASE_URL** and the value copied on step 10 and **Save**
13. Wait for deploy to finish...
14. Go to **Console** and type `rake db:migrate`
15. Your app location should be at the top

## How do I...

### Run the server locally?

You will need to install Rails 6 as well as Postgresql. Follow the ruby and rails installation instructions on the [Getting Started with Rails](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html) and [download postgresql](https://www.postgresql.org/download/). Once you have the environment set up, cd in your command line into your frever generated server and run `rails s`. The server will be available on `localhost:3000`.

### Update the default UI?

You can find the auto generated html files in your folder under `app/views/<plural_of_model>`. The css files are under `app/assets/stylesheets/<plural_of_model>.scss`.
The format is `.html.erb` but you can write regular html in those files. If you want to add React follow the steps described in the [react-rails gem](https://github.com/reactjs/react-rails). Remember, the generated server is a Rails 6 app so make sure to follow the instructions for that release.

### Remove unwanted paths?

Go to `app/config/routes.rb`.
* To remove the index route: remove the line `root 'application#index'`
* To remove model routes: you will see a line for each of your models like this `resources :surveys`. To remove paths from a resource add `, except[:action]` where action is one of `create`, `update`, `destroy`, `show` or `index`. For example `resources :surveys, except: [:index, :destroy]` with remove the endpoints for GET all surverys and for DELETE a survey, leaving POST (create), PATCH (update), PUT (update) and GET (show single survey).

## License
This software is provided to **YOU** under the MIT License

Copyright 2021 Frever

Permission is hereby granted to you with a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## We want to hear from you!

Have you encountered any issues? Have requests or thoughts on what we should add? Wanna chat about backend server generators? Feel free to reach out at me.frever@gmail.com or through our [contact us form](http://frever.me/#contact).